---
layout: post
title: Hideous Man
categories:
- "on"
- dev
updated_at: 2011-12-27
uuid: FC506DE5-FF90-4655-9B08-76FB583B8865
---

So I reread this story from David Foster Wallace's collection "Brief Interviews with Hideous Men", and it (as his stuff usually does) resonated to an uncomfortable degree. The collection has, among other things, a series of interviews with men about their relationships with women. The title bills them as hideous, but Wallace's talent is discovering the relatable in the abhorrent. That's what makes this collection so hard to read- part of me loathes the speakers during these interviews, and part of me sympathizes with them in a way that I haven't sympathized with any other fictional set of characters. Disturbing stuff, right?

The <a href="http://www.theparisreview.org/fiction/1225/brief-interviews-with-hideous-men-david-foster-wallace">story</a> itself is one that I must have kind of glossed over the first time I read the collection, because I didn't remember it upon reading it earlier tonight. I ended up there after searching for DFW on twitter (thanks, <a href="https://twitter.com/#!/orta">orta</a>) and finding <a href="http://www.listsofnote.com/2011/12/david-foster-wallaces-word-lists.html">this list of words</a> that he apparently just found and liked. The list alone is neat and worth checking out, if you're into words. Anyway, the links eventyually led me to the story, and I struggled with my short attention span long enough to sit down and read the whole thing. I'm glad I did.

The interview is about a man who seduces a hippy for a one-night-stand. The woman tells him a story about a time that she was abducted, raped, and nearly killed by a "sexual psychotic". She avoided murder by making an essential emotional connection the man, confirming her own humanity to him (and thus removing her from "it" status) while at the same time affirming his own personhood. While the interviewee relays the story as relayed to him by his hippy conquest, he makes the connection between his own need to engender intimacy without succumbing to it himself and the psychotic man's same impulse. The difference, says the hideous man, is the way they play out the urge: he does it by finding women, making "mutually nurturing and exquisite love" to them, and then giving them a fake number; the psychotic does it by raping and murdering the woman. The interviewee draws the disturbing parallel between the two. The interview comes to a climax when the hideous man candidly confesses to the interviewer that he fell deeply and madly in love with the hippy, the conquest; he'd discovered or realized or tricked himself into believing that this one woman could save him.

So that's the summary, which is easy. The reaction is the tricky bit. Wallace does an interesting thing with this story, I think; through a sort of transitive property of emotional transference, he forces some readers to inhabit the mental space of a sexual predator. Society hardly stigmatizes the interviewee- he's interested in no-strings-attached sex, and he's willing to be deceptive about it. He's a dick, and (regardless of what he says to the contrary) it's easy to imagine that he's got the emotional depth of a puddle, but he's not a criminal. He's not a sympathetic character in the traditional sense, but he's easy enough to sympathize with (for me, at least, which is uncomfortable enough). His smugness is repulsive, but the self-awareness of his smugness, and his self-awareness of his self-awareness of his smugness, puts him in a position that isn't completely foreign to me. It isn't a good realization, but it's tolerable. Then HE, the character at the fringe of my self-imposed sympathy matrix, connects himself to the sexual psychotic; by doing so, he forces me to do the same. It's tempting to try to replace the "I" here with "the reader", but I honestly don't know if most people are better than me and don't have this selfish sort of... thing. I'm not sure if it's better to think that most people do or don't. Apart from all the hemming and hawing, though, the bottom line is as follows: Wallace's story makes me confront an ugly part of myself. Good literature does this. I feel like I could pull something lofty out of this, but I'm hoping that writing this down will allow me to affect a change rather than just enjoy the FEELING of confronting something. "That's a part of me! It's bad. I can see that", this complacent Me says. "I had such a productive day, mentalstatewise, because I viewed this part of me." And then this me doesn't really do anything about it. I hope that's not what happens.

This is probably too personal for a public thing, but maybe that'll encourage me to be a better person. Anyway, that's what I love about David Foster Wallace, and about good literature in general- you aren't just a consumer of it, you are a participant. I think that's the value that it has.

-Doc