---
layout: post
title: Hello, New Year.
categories:
- "on"
- dev
updated_at: 2011-12-27
uuid: FC506DE5-FF90-4655-9B08-76FB583B8865
---

So, it's a New Year. I guess this is when people make resolutions, but I'm not sure I want to. I've already been trying really hard to live my life like I want to. I've been taking opportunities that come up and so on. I'd like to write more, so I'm doing this. We'll see if it pans out- I hope it does. I love working with GitHub. It's very pleasant.

So, how did I celebrate the holidays? Christmas was pretty much par for the course- big family party, gifts exchanged, smiles, all that. It was good fun, though, and I didn't find myself too cynical to enjoy the Christmas Carols completely this year. That's an improvement. I got a new little laptop that's perfect for writing up stuff like this, and I'm hoping it'll inspire me to pick up a new programming language. I'm tempted to try to learn Ruby, just because it seems awesome and <a href="http://orta.github.com">orta</a> uses it. Bookwise, I got some interesting stuff. My grandmother gave me a book by a scholar named Stanley Fish. I felt pleased with myself; I actually knew the author before I recognized the book, and I had an opinion on him (specifically, his views on Milton- look them up, they're silly). Elsewise, the best thing came from a certain Karen, who made up a series of four prints of some of my favorite bands, in nice frames and all. I'm still looking forward to hanging them up.

Of course, New Years was more interesting than a laundry list of Things I Got. It is, instead, a laundry list of explosions. I'll add some pictures later, but the basic theme of the party was "things that go up or blow up". My brother made a massive firework thing with a bicycle wheel and more than a dozen rockets- it was blindingly bright, if brief. We set a toy motorcycle on fire and jumped a jump, doused our christmas tree in methane and ignited it, and set off a wax bomb. The last one was particularly pyrotechnic; if you ever get the chance to do that, you should. The night, as it usually does, took a turn for the weird around 1:30, but there were no real problems. All in all, it was a good time.

That's all I've got. It's fun to write, though. I hope this becomes habitual.

-Doc